Machine Learning Tutorial Python - 15: Naive Bayes Classifier Algorithm Part 2
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
In this tutorial we can see how we can find whether the email is spam or not.
Here we can also see how we can use the sentences/words in the machine learning.
Here the dataset was string first. It has emails in sentences and whether it is spam or not.

We need to use the technique called count vectorizer technique for text to count. Becuase machine leanring understand only numbers
This will take the unique words on the sentence in the each data and make the count
For each unique words it will create the count

We can use CountVectorizer for getting number of counts of each words in the sentences
from sklearn.feature_extraction.text import CountVectorizer
v = CountVectorizer()
count = v.fit_transform(X.values)


Naive bayes has 3 types of classifier
Bernoulli Naive Bayes : This is used when feature has only 2 or binary in nature. 0 or 1.  yes or not. one or two, true or false. During that we can use this
Multinomial Naive Bayes : It is used when there is discreate data. Example movie rating from 1 to 5 etc
Gaussian Naive Bayes: In last tutorial we have used Gausian Naive Bayes. Mostly used for probabilty related.

Here we will use multinomial naive bayes

Below is the way to use multinomial naive bayes

from sklearn.naive_bayes import MultinomialNB
model = MultinomialNB()
model.fit(X_train, y_train)


In above, we want to convert in to count first and then we need to pass it to the model.
To make it simple we can use Pipeline to use multiple steps here.
In below, X_train and y_train will be passed on pipeline which internally calls CountVectorizer first and then pass it will call Multinomial

from sklearn.pipeline import Pipeline
clf = Pipeline([('vectorizer', CountVectorizer()), ('nb', MultinomialNB)])
clf.fit(X_train, y_train)
clf.score(X_test, y_test)

For more detaisl please check the jupyter notebook


-------------------
